[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: All right,
let's take our file save as and
let's go to 6.server.js.
And now I'm gonna be able to reveal to you
why it was that I started naming these
files with different numbers like this.
Because the next question
that we might ask,
was clear that if we wanted to print out
a hello world with a random number to it.
Then we can just call res.writeHead or
res.end.
But what about when we're throwing
out entire HTML pages of content from
a templating engine or something.
We don't be calling .writes over and
over again for all of our page content.
In fact, what about all of our static
files that we might wanna serve up
like our JavaScript files and
our CSS files.
We don't wanna manually do a fileRead
stream and read those in and
pipe those out.
That's way too much work.
So, some people feel like nodes
shouldn't serve up static files and
so they will write a node instance
that handles kind of your server API.
But they'll host all of
the static files for
an app on a different domain on a CDN or
on some other kind of web server.
And that's a perfectly valid
way of going about it.
But I just wanted to also show you if
you wanted to serve up static files from
inside of node.
A simple way to do that without
a big complicated framework.
There's a simple little tool
that we're going to install.
So the first thing we'll do
is go to our command line.
Stop that process from running.
Go to our command line and
do npm install node-static.
Again, if you've already got it,
you won't need to run it.
But if you don't have that installed yet,
do npm install node-static.
Then it'll load a whole bunch of
sub-dependencies and things like that.
But it'll load up a little module that
we're gonna be able to use to spin
up a static file server for
our static files.
[COUGH] Then we'll come
back to our system.
I want you to create
a brand new empty file and
call it 6.html..
So we're gonna have a 6.server.js and
we're gonna have a 6.html.
And inside of that, just make yourself
a real simple plain HTML page.
Make sure it has some sort of identifying
information in it that lets you
know which version file you're looking at,
6.html for instance.
>> Kyle: Okay, I've created myself an HTML
fil, now I would like to be able to serve
up that HTML file when I make a request
to the website.
So we're gonna get rid of now this
whole slash business with the randomly
generating hello world stuff and
you don't technically have to remove it.
But let's just get rid of it cuz we're not
gonna use that in any more of our things.
So we're gonna set ourselves
up with another path here.
And so what we wanna ask is
if we request a file of a particular
type of a particular your URL pattern.
We wanna handle that as
a static file request,
otherwise we don't wanna handle it, okay?
Now, rather than have you try to retype
this regular expression which may
be more difficult.
I would recommend you go ahead and
open up the solutions folder version
of 6.server to see you can do a copy and
paste.
Cuz there's some regular expression stuff
that I'm doing here that you may not wanna
accidentally get not quite right.
So just copy and paste in that if clause
from the other solutions file and
I'll explain to you what it's doing.
On line 3, we've got a regular
expression there that is saying,
if my request.url starts with the slash
and has one or more numeric digits.
That's what the \d is.
And then we're doing an assertion
that says that it ends
either with the end of the string.
Or with one of the URL separator
characters like the slash,
the question mark or the hash symbol.
If any of those things come after it,
then that's a URL that we wanna recognize.
In other words, if the URL says /6,
then we wanna recognize it.
But if it says /abc or /foo,
we don't wanna recognize it.
Does everybody follow?
So it's a slightly more
complicated if statement for
doing some pattern matching
on our request URL.
Now, leave that if statement for
alone for a moment.
Let's come down here to the bottom,
we need to create a static file server.
So we need to include node static,
so I'm gonna say var node_static
= require("node-static");.
So I use the underscore
there because hyphens aren't
valid JavaScript characters.
But I've got node_static =
require("node-static");.
And then I need to create
a static files server instance,
I'm gonna say var static_files
is equal to node_static.
I'm sorry, I need to put a new in
front of it, the way it works.
I forget what their syntax is.
It's always hard to remember
everybody's different syntax.
Let me check them out quick.
>> Kyle: New node_static.server,
there we go.
So capital S server.
Now, it asks for a directory name for
the first parameter that we pass.
So node has this special variable
called __dirname, __dirname.
That will always resolve to whatever
the current directory is that
the current node program is running in.
So it's a magical property that
always reserves to that and
that's the directory that we wanna
serve up our static files from.
So that'll work just fine,
we'll just use that static file server.
Now we come up here and I'm gonna
do a little bit of a URL rewriting
magic to basically take
anything that was slash number.
And I'm gonna ignore everything
else that was in the URL and
I'm gonna return the URL
into /number.html.
So in other words, if the URL says /6,
I wanna treat it as if the URL
said /6.html.
Now again, there's lots of different
middleware frameworks out there,
many of them allow you to do fancy pattern
matching and even URL rewriting stuff.
I'm just showing you what plain old
simple JavaScript functions with regular
expressions and string manipulation.
We can do those things ourselves,
we don't need fancy frameworks for it.
When I'm gonna change it so that if I
asked for /6 that I really meant /6.html.
And then I'm just simply gonna
tell the static files module
to handle the rest of my request response,
cuz I don't wanna do that work.
I don't wanna stream in
the contents of the file.
I don't wanna try to figure out
what content type it should be or
what the content length is,
any of those details.
That's more work than I wanna deal with.
So the static file server will sniff
the MIME type from the file extension.
It'll check the file type of what it sees,
it will try to figure it out.
It makes a really good guess about
serving up your file properly.
Everybody with me so far?
All right, now that we have 6.server.js.
If we come back over here to our command
line and we say node 6.server.js,
our server will start running.
Now if we come over here and we do
a refresh without anything on our URL.
We expect to get a 403, right,
because we no longer have that
slash route handling things.
But if we now add /6 to our URL,
magically we get our 6.html
file served up to us.
And you'll notice if you look down here in
your developer tools, not only did we get
it but we got it with the correct
MIME type and the size contents.
And even gzip before us, so everything
went exactly the way we would have
hoped.
>> Speaker 2: Where
did the gzip come from?
Was that from app static?
>> Kyle: Yeah, the static file server,
it's actually capable of doing that and
there's more capability there.
You can actually pre gzip files and
have it serve those up.
So there's lots of capability there,
we won't go further into that.
But that's one of the benefits of using
a utility like that, it handles all those
sorts of details for us.
>> Kyle: [COUGH]
>> Speaker 3: How do you keep track of new
utilities and
have which ones might wanna use.
I mean it isn't just filtering or
[INAUDIBLE] a good source [INAUDIBLE] you
might point our what kind of [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Kyle: That's a really good question.
There's lots of different metrics
by which you might judge things.
So, many people say I just look at
the most starred repos on GitHub and
I look at the most depended
upon repositories on npm.
And I know that those
are the ones that I wanna go for.
So, that's one metric that says
the more popular something is,
the more likely it is
to be of high quality.
I think another metric that we should pay
attention to as I mentioned earlier is,
how many dependencies does it have.
Because if I look at module A and
module B in module A has 1,000 stars and
module B only has 10 stars.
But module B is way less dependencies.
That's another metric to consider
because even though it has less stars,
that might be the better module.
At least it might be a module that's
gonna take up less of my bandwidth or
my files space or something.
So, I think there are [COUGH] other
metrics to concern yourself besides just
is it popular.
But that's the most common
one that people do.
I subscribe to a whole bunch
of different Twitter feeds,
I subscribe to the JavaScript weekly
thing and I'm watching in things.
But basically what it
boils down to is when I
come across a task like
serving up a static files.
And I realize that it's anything more
than a few lines of writing node myself.
I asked myself has somebody
made a good module for this?
So I do a Google search and
I do a GitHub search and
I say has anybody made an NPM module for
static files serving?
And I find two or three of them.
And I go and look through the GitHub
issues and I see whether or
not they're paying attention, whether
it's an actively maintained project.
And I look and
see if anybody's been talking about it
on Twitter or how many stars it has.
I look at a bunch of different metrics and
I decide which one it's gonna do.
But before I even use it, I'll go and open
up their code and look at what they did.
Because if they're doing something and
I can see very clearly that it's something
that I could do with a few lines of code.
Why use the module?
There's no reason to add an extra
dependency for no reason.
So I'll go and look at somebody's code and
if it is useful, I'll use the module,
if not, I'll do it myself.
But that's just my own process, there's no
real like good, hard bullet proof way of
doing it.
>> Kyle: Okay,
so [COUGH] 6.server.js is
serving up an HTML file for us.